RedOwl Data Scientist Technical Exam, in the R language


To apply for a position at RedOwl Analytics, please visit
http://redowlanalytics.com/careers/

To complete the exam, ask the Data Science team to create a private
fork of this repo for you, and then complete the following
instructions:


Fill in the R script summarize-enron.R (an empty file is provided) that
can be run from the [Unix] command line in the format:

> Rscript --vanilla summarize-enron.R enron-event-history-all.csv

The Enron event history (.csv, adapted from the widely-used publicly
available data set) is included in this repo. The columns contain:
time, messageID, sender, recipients, topic, mode where time is Unix
time (in milliseconds), the topic is usually/always empty, and the
recipients are pipe-separated. A header row is not included in the
file.

The R script should produce three outputs:

1. A .csv file with three columns---"person", "sent",
"received"---where the final two columns contain the number of emails
that person sent or received in the data set. This file should be
sorted by the number of emails sent.

2. An image file (JPEG or PNG recommended) showing a line graph of the
number of emails sent by the top 5 people in (1), plotted by two-week
intervals. To clarify, the plot should have 5 lines, one for each of
the top 5 email senders from the table in (1), and time should flow
from left to right, in two-week increments.

3) An image file in a format similar to (2) that shows, for the same 5
people, the number of unique people/email addresses who contacted them
during the same two-week intervals. For example, if during a two-week
period, person A receives 10 emails from 3 distinct people, plot 3 for
that time period.


When you're done, make sure your script (but not the output) is
committed and let your contact at RedOwl know via email or "pull
request".

Code will be assessed based on completion of the tasks, efficiency,
readability, and adherence to common coding practices that best enable
sharing, re-using, and extending the code. The images need not be
sophisticated, but they should be well-organized, easily
interpretable, and of a quality typically seen in technical reports or
scientific papers.